Chris: Today’s episode is brought to you by Select Italy. Select Italy can design custom itineraries and book a whole range of product services, including state-of-the-art tours, wedding, honeymoon trips, ticketing services for museum and musical events, in Italy. Visit SelectItaly.com to learn more.

Chris: Amateur Traveler episode 514. Today, the Amateur Traveler talks about beautiful scenery, pizza, pickpockets, Roman ruins, and a historic volcano as we go to Naples and the Amalfi Coast in Italy.

Welcome to the Amateur Traveler. I’m your host Chris Christensen. We’ll hear more about our sponsor, Select Italy, later on, but first, actually, we’re going to hear a little more from them as we talk about Italy. I’d like to welcome to the show Beth Rubin, who is the sales manager at Select Italy and who is featured on the Travel and Leisure A-List for her expertise about Italy. Beth, welcome to the show.

Beth: Thanks, Chris.

Chris: And strangely enough, that’s what we’re going to talk about is Italy today.

Beth: Excellent. That works out well.

Chris: Otherwise, there’d be long awkward pauses that don’t work so well.

Beth: I can still provide a few. We’ll see how it goes.

Chris: Excellent. And what we’re talking about today is the southern part of Italy, down south of Rome, Naples and the Amalfi Coast, where I have not been, but it is on my list, which is one of the reasons I wanted to do this show. Why should I go south when I’m in Rome and go down to Naples and the Amalfi Coast?

Beth: You know, I have to say the very first time I ever went to Italy, the very first trip, and there’s been 25, 30 at least now, was to Naples. The very first place I touched down outside of the U.S. in my life was going to Naples, Italy, and it was a revelation. It was like nothing I had ever seen before. And I was on a study abroad trip, so kind of done on the cheap, but we landed at Naples airport, which is in itself a revelation. It’s very small, and there’s just a few runways. And they put us on a bus, and they took us along the Amalfi Coast.

And as someone in their early 20s, this was obviously like nothing I had ever seen before. I had never been to California. I still haven’t been to California, but I know they say that it’s just like the Highway 1 but a little more frightening. It was really cool.

Chris: We don’t have as many picturesque villages in Highway 1 in California, so it’s a little different in that fashion.

Beth: So, I mean, it was very cool. They picked us up, and they took us along what’s known as the Sorrentine Peninsula, which is sort of the top side of what the underbelly is known as the Amalfi Coast. So lot’s of people think, “Oh, I’m going to Sorrento, I’m going to the Amalfi Coast.” Sure, fair enough, but really that’s the Sorrentine Coast, and underneath, Positano, Praiano, Ravello, Amalfi, that’s the Amalfi Coast. So we just kind of did that bus ride along, and it was spectacular. And I think the first place in a country that you ever go to kind of keeps a warm spot in your heart, especially if it’s a good experience, and that’s exactly what I had. There’s so many things to see and do down there that one could certainly spend a week, if not more.

Chris: Now, one thing that I’ve always heard, and, again, I have been as far south as Rome, and they say that if you’re in Rome and you find it too chaotic, head north, and if you sort of revel in that part of it, then you should head south. And Naples has a reputation of being a little intense, and just a little edgy, keep an eye on your stuff sort of place.

Beth: Absolutely. All of these things are true. It’s definitely not for the timid. You should be a traveler. I wouldn’t go there as someone who, you know, goes to Mexico…I don’t know. I don’t know how to describe it, because I focus on Italy, and Naples very specifically requires you to have your wits about you all the time. You always have to be alert when you’re walking around that city. Back in the day, like 10, 12 years ago, I don’t know if they’re still doing it, but five-star hotels, when you checked into those hotels in Naples, they would request you to hand over your wallet, or your watch, like Rolex and things like that, and they would give you a Swatch to wear while you were in town.

Chris: Oh my goodness, I have never heard of that.

Beth: Because, literally, they’re so good at what they do that they’ll ride by on a Vespa and rip the Rolex off your wrist, and you won’t even know it happened.

Chris: So this is a good place to not have your wallet in your back pocket, to have a money bag, and all the things that you should be doing anyway, but this is the place you do them for.

Beth: Yes, exactly. But it’s funny, because the people are so friendly and so warm, so this is just sort of the other side of it.

Chris: Well, let’s start with why we’re not skipping Naples then.

Beth: Okay. Let’s start with pizza, because everybody loves pizza. That’s an easy buy-in. Pizza is from Naples. That’s where it was invented. When Queen Margherita of Savoy came to visit, they made pizza Margherita for her and made it with red sauce…

Chris: I didn’t know that’s who it was named for. Okay.

Beth: Yes, red sauce, white cheese, and green basil for the colors of the Italian flag. So pizza is like a religion in Naples, and people are very devout to their pizzeria.

Chris: I was going to say, I’m sure if I asked you and what’s the best place to get pizza in Naples…

Beth: Oh, that’s not fair. There’s so many. Lots of people say Da Michele, Pizzeria Brandi. I mean, it would be hard to get a bad pizza in Naples, especially as an American, because we don’t know any better.

Chris: And when we say pizza, the closest style that we have in the U.S. to Naples pizza is New York style pizza. It’s a thin crust, floppy pizza with very fresh ingredients obviously.

Beth: Yeah, exactly. And you have to be fitted by the government as like a, they call it the Vero Pizza, the true pizza. So if you get one of those signs in your window, you’re the real deal. So, okay, food, always a great reason to go to Italy and a great reason to go to Naples for the pizza. But they also have great museums. They have the archeological museum, which has almost all of the relics that were taken out of Pompeii were brought to the Naples Archeological Museum, so you could spend hours there, and you’re going to see amazing things. And then other archeological finds as well, but I mean to get something like Pompeii and Herculaneum and put it under one roof is pretty spectacular.

Chris: And you say Pompeii and Herculaneum, so we’re on the Gulf of Naples, is that the right name, which is where Pompeii is, the very famous city, but not as many people have heard of Herculaneum.

Beth: Yes, and that’s the other city that was destroyed when Mount Vesuvius erupted in 79 AD. So that’s one of the things you can do, and you can visit that from Naples or from the coast, which I know we’ll talk about later. But these two sites are wildly different, because Pompeii obviously everyone’s heard of it, it’s huge, it’s a very big site, and it’s packed with tourists, unless you go in April, or March, or November. But you know June, July, August, September, very crowded, but very interesting. There’s a reason people go there. So they have that, but then they also have the option of going to Herculaneum, this other town.

Chris: Well, and before we get to Herculaneum, you say there’s a reason people go there. Let’s give them that reason then.

Beth: Okay, sure. There’s so many pieces to it. They have their old coliseum-type theater that’s pretty well-preserved. They have all these houses and shops, and well, everyone’s favorite part of Pompeii is the brothels. They have very interesting frescoes with explanations and pictures of the goods that they are offering. And so you can walk into the brothel and pick your number 2, or your number 13, and off you go in these tiny little rooms. And it’s very fascinating. The other big draw, aside from that at Pompeii, are the rooms that actually contain the bodies. And there’s only a few of them, but they’re…

Chris: Well, not so much the bodies.

Beth: Right, but like they’re preserved in ash. It’s almost sarcophagus.

Chris: Like almost the casting of the bodies, right?

Beth: Exactly, exactly, and they’re not just laying there, like you would see if you saw a tomb, but you can see them reaching out and trying to save their own lives in agony. So it’s very fascinating to see.

Chris: Well, and the whole city was buried in I don’t remember how much ash.

Beth: I don’t remember, either, but…

Chris: But I want to say at least six feet, enough so that you were in trouble.

Beth: Completely covered, and they didn’t find it for centuries.

Chris: Right. I mean, everyone knew it was there, because it was covered very well historically, but, right, completely gone. And then you moved us on to Herculaneum.

Beth: Okay, sorry, yes. So Herculaneum is the sister city, and it’s very well-preserved. I’m not sure why. I mean, it could be lack of interest compared to Pompeii. It could be just because they don’t get the number of tourists, so it’s very well-preserved. Going back to Pompeii for a second, I’m sure people have read in the news that this is a UNESCO World Heritage Site that is becoming on the brink of being dropped off the list because they’re not taking care of it well enough and they’ve got so many tourists going in there.

So Herculaneum is like the polar opposite. It’s still very well-preserved, and it’s also very interesting. It doesn’t have sort of the depth of things that you’ll find in Pompeii, but it’s still a very interesting thing to visit and see, and the stuff that was taken out of there is also in the Naples Archeological Museum, just to tie that up with a bow.

Chris: Let’s take a break here and hear from our sponsor, who is Select Italy. Select Italy is the ultimate source for travel to Italy and offers a wide range of superior Italian travel products and services, including customized itineraries, state-of-the-art tours and packages, wedding, honeymoon trips, unique culinary classes, a complete pre-departure ticketing service for museums and musical events, private guided tours, yacht charters, transportation, hotel reservations, villa booking, and more.

Through a vast network of suppliers and cultural contacts, anything and everything you need for optimum travel to Italy is possible with Select Italy. Based in Chicago, with an office in New York and Shanghai and support staff in Italy, the company has expanded its offerings in travel services to the Balkans with the launch of Select Croatia. Visit SelectItaly.com and SelectCroatia.com.

Before we get back to Naples and the museum, you mentioned the time of year that you would go. What is the best time of year to go to this region?

Beth: Well, you know, there’s many different ways to look at this. If you’re going as a site seer, and you want to see things like Pompeii and other sites, then it’s better to go September, October, April.

Chris: In that shoulder season.

Beth: Yes, and, well, it’s not priced as shoulder season, unfortunately, but it’s, of course, calm as a shoulder season. But then if you’re wanting to go to the coast to hang out on the beach and then take in the sun and all that good stuff, see and be seen, then July and August are the absolute height of high season. Basically, at this point, just for your reference and for the listeners’ reference, Positano hotels are pretty much entirely sold out for the months of May and June. Gone. Done.

Chris: And we are recording this in April.

Beth: Yes, and they’ve been gone for about a month. So it’s really hard. Basically, you’re looking to pick up canceled rooms at this point if you want to go to Positano this coming summer.

Chris: And in part, Positano, because that’s the place to see and be seen, you mentioned going to the beach. Okay. It’s not just that there’s a nice beach there, but that’s where…

Beth: And the beach isn’t that great, you know. They’re awful beaches. It’s not like white sand that you’re going to find in the Caribbean or anything like that. It’s a different type of beach scene.

Chris: Right, and actually, as a question for you, if I’m someone who goes to Hawaii or to the Caribbean, does Italy have a nice beach?

Beth: Yes, Sardinia.

Chris: Okay. Interesting. We actually have an episode coming up on Sardinia, so a little teaser there apparently. But not on the mainland?

Beth: There’s little bits.

Chris: You don’t go to Italy for that kind of beach experience. Okay.

Beth: No.

Chris: Great. That’s what I have been telling people.

Beth: I’m glad to see that we’re checking.

Chris: And I took you away from the museum in Naples.

Beth: Right, okay, so the archeological museum, we’ve covered that. But then they also have the Museo di Capodimonte, which is an art museum, but it’s a pretty spectacular art museum, considering that it’s got Caravaggio’s, and Brueghel’s, and other world-class artists in this little palace in Naples up on the hill. It’s a really nice museum to visit if you’re interested in painting, and sculpture, and things like that. And then, I mean, there’s just a million churches obviously, and they have a Naples underground, and, oh, it’s a very frenetic city, as we said.